
ZCZC MIATCPAT2 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM
 
BULLETIN
Tropical Storm Beta Intermediate Advisory Number 10A
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL222020
100 AM CDT Sun Sep 20 2020
 
...BETA STILL NEARLY STATIONARY BUT EXPECTED TO BEGIN MOVING
TOWARD TEXAS LATER TODAY...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 100 AM CDT...0600 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...26.9N 92.4W
ABOUT 220 MI...355 KM SE OF GALVESTON TEXAS
ABOUT 315 MI...505 KM E OF CORPUS CHRISTI TEXAS
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...60 MPH...95 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...N OR 360 DEGREES AT 2 MPH...4 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...997 MB...29.44 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
None.
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Storm Surge Warning is in effect for...
* Port Aransas, Texas to Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge, Louisiana,
including Copano Bay, Aransas Bay, San Antonio Bay, Matagorda Bay,
Galveston Bay, Sabine Lake, and Lake Calcasieu
 
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* Baffin Bay, Texas to Port Aransas, Texas including Baffin Bay and
Corpus Christi Bay
 
A Hurricane Watch is in effect for...
* Port Aransas Texas to High Island Texas
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* Port Aransas Texas to Morgan City Louisiana
 
A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
* South of Port Aransas Texas to the Mouth of the Rio Grande
 
A Storm Surge Warning means there is a danger of life-threatening
inundation, from rising water moving inland from the coastline,
during the next 36 hours in the indicated locations. For a
depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.  This is a life-threatening situation.  Persons
located within these areas should take all necessary actions to
protect life and property from rising water and the potential for
other dangerous conditions.  Promptly follow evacuation and other
instructions from local officials.
 
A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours.
For a depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.
 
A Hurricane Watch means that hurricane conditions are possible
within the watch area.  A watch is typically issued 48 hours
before the anticipated first occurrence of tropical-storm-force
winds, conditions that make outside preparations difficult or
dangerous.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere within the warning area within 36 hours.
 
A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
possible within the watch area, generally within 48 hours.
 
For storm information specific to your area, including possible
inland watches and warnings, please monitor products issued by your
local National Weather Service forecast office.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 100 AM CDT (0600 UTC), the center of Tropical Storm Beta was
located near latitude 26.9 North, longitude 92.4 West.  Beta has
been meandering for the past several hours.  A slow motion toward
the west-northwest is forecast to begin later today, followed by a
slow northwest to north motion Monday night and Tuesday.  On the
forecast track, the center of Beta will move toward the coast of
Texas and likely move inland late Monday or early Tuesday.
 
Data from an Air Force Reserve Hurricane Hunter aircraft indicate
that maximum sustained winds remain near 60 mph (95 km/h) with
higher gusts.  Little change in strength is forecast during the next
couple of days before Beta reaches the Texas coast.  Weakening is
anticipated once Beta moves inland.
 
Tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 185 miles (295 km)
mainly to the north of the center.
 
The estimated minimum central pressure based on data from the Air
Force Hurricane Hunters is 997 mb (29.44 inches).
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Beta can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT2 and WMO header WTNT42 KNHC.
 
STORM SURGE:  The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the
tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by
rising waters moving inland from the shoreline.  The water could
reach the following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated
areas if the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Baffin Bay, TX to Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge, LA including Corpus
Christi Bay, Baffin Bay, Copano Bay, Aransas Bay, San Antonio Bay,
Matagorda Bay, Galveston Bay, Sabine Lake, and Calcasieu Lake...2-4
ft
Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge, LA to Ocean Springs, MS including
Vermilion Bay...1-3 ft
Lake Borgne, Lake Pontchartrain, and Lake Maurepas...1-3 ft
Mouth of the Rio Grande to Baffin Bay, TX...1-2 ft
 
The deepest water will occur along the immediate coast in areas of
onshore winds, where the surge will be accompanied by large and
dangerous waves.  Surge-related flooding depends on the relative
timing of the surge and the tidal cycle, and can vary greatly over
short distances.  For information specific to your area, please see
products issued by your local National Weather Service forecast
office.
 
WIND:  Tropical storm conditions are likely occurring in the
tropical storm warning area along the southwestern Louisiana coast
and will spread westward to the warning areas in Texas late today
through early Monday.  Hurricane conditions are possible within the
hurricane watch area by late Monday or Monday night.  Tropical
storm conditions are possible within the tropical storm watch area
along the central Louisiana coast this morning, and are possible
within the tropical storm watch area along the south Texas coast on
Monday.
 
RAINFALL:  Through Thursday, Beta is expected to produce rainfall
accumulations of 8 to 12 inches with isolated totals of 20 inches
across southern Louisiana and coastal southeast Texas, with 3 to 7
inches spreading northward into the Mid-South mid next week.  Flash
and urban flooding is likely as well as minor river flooding.
Isolated moderate flooding along the middle Texas coast is possible.
 
SURF:  Swells are increasing and reaching the coast of Texas and
the Gulf Coast of Mexico, generated by a combination of Beta and a
cold front entering the northern Gulf of Mexico.  These swells are
likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip current conditions.
Please consult products from your local weather office.
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next complete advisory at 400 AM CDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Cangialosi
 
NNNN
