
ZCZC MIATCPAT5 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM

BULLETIN
Hurricane Dorian Intermediate Advisory Number 52A
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL052019
800 AM EDT Fri Sep 06 2019

...EYE OF DORIAN NEAR CAPE HATTERAS NORTH CAROLINA...


SUMMARY OF 800 AM EDT...1200 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...35.2N 75.7W
ABOUT 10 MI...15 KM WSW OF CAPE HATTERAS NORTH CAROLINA
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...90 MPH...150 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...NE OR 50 DEGREES AT 14 MPH...22 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...956 MB...28.23 INCHES


WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:

The Hurricane Warning and the Tropical Storm Warning have been
discontinued west of Surf City, North Carolina.

The Storm Surge Warning south of Salter Path, North Carolina has
been discontinued.

SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:

A Storm Surge Warning is in effect for...
* Salter Path NC to Poquoson VA
* Pamlico and Albemarle Sounds
* Neuse and Pamlico Rivers
* Hampton Roads

A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* Surf City to the North Carolina/Virginia border
* Pamlico and Albemarle Sounds

A Hurricane Watch is in effect for...
* Nova Scotia

A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* North Carolina/Virginia border to Fenwick Island DE
* Chesapeake Bay from Drum Point southward
* Tidal Potomac south of Cobb Island
* Woods Hole to Sagamore Beach MA
* Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard MA

A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
* Prince Edward Island
* Magdalen Islands
* Fundy National Park to Shediac
* Francois to Boat Harbour

A Storm Surge Warning means there is a danger of life-threatening
inundation, from rising water moving inland from the coastline,
during the next 36 hours in the indicated locations. For a depiction
of areas at risk, please see the National Weather Service
Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at hurricanes.gov.
This is a life-threatening situation.  Persons located within these
areas should take all necessary actions to protect life and property
from rising water and the potential for other dangerous conditions.
Promptly follow evacuation and other instructions from local
officials.

A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected
somewhere within the warning area.  Preparations to protect life and
property should be rushed to completion.

A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected within the warning area within 36 hours.

A Hurricane Watch means that hurricane conditions are possible
within the watch area.  A watch is typically issued 48 hours
before the anticipated first occurrence of tropical-storm-force
winds, conditions that make outside preparations difficult or
dangerous.

A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
possible within the watch area, in this case within 36 hours.

Interests elsewhere along the Mid-Atlantic and New England coasts of
the United States should monitor the progress of Dorian.

For storm information specific to your area, including possible
inland watches and warnings, please monitor products issued by your
local National Weather Service forecast office.


DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 800 AM EDT (1200 UTC), the center of Hurricane Dorian was located
near latitude 35.2 North, longitude 75.7 West. Dorian is moving
toward the northeast near 14 mph (22 km/h) and this general motion
with an increase in forward speed is expected through Saturday.  On
the forecast track, the center of Dorian will move near or over the
coast of North Carolina during the next few hours.  The center
should move to the southeast of extreme southeastern New England
tonight and Saturday morning, and then across Nova Scotia late
Saturday or Saturday night.

Maximum sustained winds are near 90 mph (150 km/h) with higher
gusts.  Dorian should remain a powerful hurricane as it moves near
or along the coast of North Carolina during the next few hours.
Dorian is forecast to become a post-tropical cyclone with
hurricane-force winds by Saturday night as it approaches Nova
Scotia.

Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 45 miles (75 km) from
the center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 220
miles (350 km).  A Weatherflow station at Buxton, North Carolina,
recently reported a sustained wind of 67 mph (107 km/h) and a gust
to 85 mph (145 km/h).

The estimated minimum central pressure based on data from the Air
Force Hurricane Hunters and surface observations is 956 mb (28.23
inches).  An automated station in Ocracoke recently reported a
pressure of 960.4 mb (28.36 inches).


HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
WIND:  Hurricane conditions should continue along portions of the
North Carolina coast for the next few hours.  Tropical storm
conditions are spreading onto the Virginia coast in the warning
area.

Tropical storm conditions are expected elsewhere in the Tropical
Storm Warning area in the Mid-Atlantic states later today and over
portions of extreme southeastern Massachusetts tonight or early
Saturday.

Hurricane conditions are possible in Nova Scotia on Saturday.

STORM SURGE:  The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the
tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by
rising waters moving inland from the shoreline.  The water could
reach the following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated
areas if the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...

Salter Path to Duck NC, including Pamlico and Albemarle
Sounds and the Neuse and Pamlico Rivers...4 to 7 ft
Duck NC to Poquoson VA, including Hampton Roads...2 to 4 ft

Water levels could begin to rise well in advance of the arrival of
strong winds.  The surge will be accompanied by large and
destructive waves.  Surge-related flooding depends on the how close
the center of Dorian comes to the coast, and can vary greatly over
short distances.  For information specific to your area, please see
products issued by your local National Weather Service forecast
office.

RAINFALL:  Dorian is expected to produce the following rainfall
totals through Saturday.

Northeastern North Carolina...Additional 3 to 8 inches, isolated
storm totals 15 inches.
Far southeast Virginia...3 to 8 inches.
Extreme southeastern New England...2 to 4 inches.
Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island...3 to 5 inches.
Newfoundland...1 to 2 inches.

This rainfall may cause life-threatening flash floods

SURF:  Large swells will affect much of the southeastern United
States coast from northern Florida through North Carolina during
the next couple of days.  These swells are likely to cause
life-threatening surf and rip current conditions. Please consult
products from your local weather office.

TORNADOES:  A few tornadoes are possible this morning across
eastern North Carolina into southeastern Virginia.


NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next complete advisory at 1100 AM EDT.

$$
Forecaster Beven

NNNN
