
ZCZC MIATCPAT5 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM

BULLETIN
Hurricane Dorian Intermediate Advisory Number 40A
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL052019
800 AM EDT Tue Sep 03 2019

...EYE OF DORIAN BEGINNING TO INCH NORTHWESTWARD...
...SOUTHERN EYEWALL CONTINUES TO POUND GRAND BAHAMA ISLAND...


SUMMARY OF 800 AM EDT...1200 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...27.1N 78.4W
ABOUT 40 MI...70 KM NE OF FREEPORT GRAND BAHAMA ISLAND
ABOUT 110 MI...175 KM ENE OF WEST PALM BEACH FLORIDA
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...120 MPH...195 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...NW OR 325 DEGREES AT 1 MPH...2 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...952 MB...28.11 INCHES


WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:

None

SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:

A Storm Surge Warning is in effect for...
* Lantana FL to Savannah River

A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* North of Deerfield Beach FL to south of Lantana FL
* Savannah River to South Santee River SC

A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* Grand Bahama and the Abacos Islands in the northwestern Bahamas
* Jupiter Inlet FL to Ponte Vedra Beach FL

A Hurricane Watch is in effect for...
* North of Deerfield Beach FL to Jupiter Inlet FL
* North of Ponte Vedra Beach FL to South Santee River SC

A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* North of Deerfield Beach FL to Jupiter Inlet FL
* North of Ponte Vedra Beach FL to Altamaha Sound GA

A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
* North of Golden Beach FL to Deerfield Beach FL
* Lake Okeechobee

A Storm Surge Warning means there is a danger of life-threatening
inundation, from rising water moving inland from the coastline,
during the next 36 hours in the indicated locations. For a depiction
of areas at risk, please see the National Weather Service Storm
Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at hurricanes.gov.  This is a
life-threatening situation.  Persons located within these areas
should take all necessary actions to protect life and property from
rising water and the potential for other dangerous conditions.
Promptly follow evacuation and other instructions from local
officials.

A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours.

A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected
somewhere within the warning area.  Preparations to protect life and
property should be rushed to completion.

A Hurricane Watch means that hurricane conditions are possible
within the watch area.  A watch is typically issued 48 hours
before the anticipated first occurrence of tropical-storm-force
winds, conditions that make outside preparations difficult or
dangerous.

A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected within the warning area within 36 hours.

A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
possible within the watch area, generally within 48 hours.

Interests elsewhere along the southeast and Mid-Atlantic coasts of
the United States should continue to monitor the progress of Dorian,
as additional watches or warnings may be required today.

For storm information specific to your area in the United
States, including possible inland watches and warnings, please
monitor products issued by your local National Weather Service
forecast office. For storm information specific to your area
outside of the United States, please monitor products issued by
your national meteorological service.


DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 800 AM EDT (1200 UTC), the eye of Hurricane Dorian was located by
reconnaissance aircraft and NOAA Doppler radar near latitude 27.1
North, longitude 78.4 West.  Dorian is beginning to move
northwestward at about 1 mph (2 km/h), and a slightly faster motion
toward the northwest or north-northwest is expected later today and
tonight.  A turn toward the north is forecast by Wednesday evening,
followed by a turn to the north-northeast Thursday morning.  On this
track, the core of extremely dangerous Hurricane Dorian will
gradually move north of Grand Bahama Island through this evening.
The hurricane will then move dangerously close to the Florida east
coast late today through Wednesday evening, very near the Georgia
and South Carolina coasts Wednesday night and Thursday, and near or
over the North Carolina coast late Thursday.

Maximum sustained winds are near 120 mph (195 km/h) with higher
gusts.  Dorian is a category 3 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson
Hurricane Wind Scale.  Dorian is expected to remain a powerful
hurricane during the next couple of days.

Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 45 miles (75 km) from
the center, and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to
160 miles (260 km).

The latest minimum central pressure reported by reconnaissance
aircraft is 952 mb (28.11 inches).


HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
WIND:  Devastating hurricane conditions continue on Grand Bahama
Island.

Hurricane conditions are expected within the Hurricane Warning area
in Florida by this evening.  Hurricane conditions are possible in
the Hurricane Watch area beginning Wednesday.

In South Florida, tropical storm conditions are expected within the
Tropical Storm Warning area through today, and are possible in the
Tropical Storm Watch area through this morning.  Along the coast of
northeastern Florida and Georgia, tropical storm conditions are
expected within the Tropical Storm Warning area on Wednesday.

STORM SURGE:  A life-threatening storm surge will raise water levels
by as much as 10 to 15 feet above normal tide levels in areas of
onshore winds on Grand Bahama Island.  Near the coast, the surge
will be accompanied by large and destructive waves.  Water levels
should very slowly subside on the Abaco Islands today.

The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the tide will cause
normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters
moving inland from the shoreline.  The water could reach the
following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated areas if
the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...

Flagler/Volusia County Line to South Santee River SC...4 to 7 ft
Lantana FL to the Flagler/Volusia County Line...3 to 5 ft
North of Deerfield Beach FL to Lantana FL...2 to 4 ft

Water levels could begin to rise well in advance of the arrival of
strong winds.  The surge will be accompanied by large and
destructive waves.  Surge-related flooding depends on the how close
the center of Dorian comes to the coast, and can vary greatly over
short distances.  For information specific to your area, please see
products issued by your local National Weather Service forecast
office.

RAINFALL:  Dorian is expected to produce the following rainfall
totals through Friday:

Northwestern Bahamas...Additional 3 to 6 inches, isolated storm
totals over 30 inches.
Coastal Carolinas...5 to 10 inches, isolated 15 inches.
Atlantic Coast from the Florida peninsula north of West Palm Beach
through Georgia...3 to 6 inches, isolated 9 inches.
Southeast Virginia...2 to 4 inches, isolated 6 inches.

This rainfall may cause life-threatening flash floods.

SURF:  Large swells are affecting the northwestern Bahamas, the
Florida east coast, and the coast of Georgia.  These swells are
expected to spread northward along much of the remainder of the
southeastern United States coast during the next couple of days.
These swells are likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip
current conditions.  Please consult products from your local weather
office.

TORNADOES:  A tornado or two is possible near the immediate east
coast of Florida through tonight.  This risk will shift to along
the immediate coastal Georgia and the coastal Carolinas on Wednesday
into Thursday.


NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next complete advisory at 1100 AM EDT.

$$
Forecaster Brown

NNNN
