
ZCZC MIATCPAT5 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM
 
BULLETIN
Tropical Storm Elsa Intermediate Advisory Number 22A
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL052021
800 PM EDT Mon Jul 05 2021
 
...ELSA PASSING JUST EAST OF HAVANA CUBA WITH HEAVY RAINS...
...EXPECTED TO MOVE NEAR THE LOWER FLORIDA KEYS ON TUESDAY...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 800 PM EDT...0000 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...22.9N 81.9W
ABOUT 30 MI...50 KM E OF HAVANA CUBA
ABOUT 115 MI...185 KM S OF KEY WEST FLORIDA
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...50 MPH...85 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...NW OR 325 DEGREES AT 13 MPH...20 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...1008 MB...29.77 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
None.
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Storm Surge Warning is in effect for...
* West coast of Florida from Bonita Beach to the Aucilla River
including Tampa Bay
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* The Cuban provinces of Cienfuegos, Matanzas, Villa Clara,
Mayabeque, Havana, and Artemisa
* The Florida Keys from Craig Key westward to the Dry Tortugas
* West coast of Florida from Flamingo northward to Ochlockonee River
 
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* West of the Aucilla River to the Ochlockonee River
 
A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
* West of the Ochlockonee River to Indian Pass, Florida
 
A Storm Surge Warning means there is a danger of life-threatening 
inundation, from rising water moving inland from the coastline, 
during the next 36 hours in the indicated locations. For a depiction 
of areas at risk, please see the National Weather Service Storm 
Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at hurricanes.gov.  This is a 
life-threatening situation.  Persons located within these areas 
should take all necessary actions to protect life and property from 
rising water and the potential for other dangerous conditions.  
Promptly follow evacuation and other instructions from local 
officials.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere within the warning area.
 
A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours.
For a depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.
 
A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
possible within the watch area.
 
Interests in coastal Georgia and the Carolinas should monitor the
progress of Elsa.
 
For storm information specific to your area in the United States, 
including possible inland watches and warnings, please monitor 
products issued by your local National Weather Service forecast 
office. For storm information specific to your area outside of the 
United States, please monitor products issued by your national 
meteorological service.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 800 PM EDT (0000 UTC), the center of Tropical Storm Elsa was 
located by radars from Key West, Florida, and Havana, Cuba, near 
latitude 22.9 North, longitude 81.9 West.  Elsa is moving toward the 
northwest near 13 mph (20 km/h), and this general motion is expected 
to continue tonight, followed by a turn toward the north-northwest 
on Tuesday, and a turn toward the north on Tuesday night.  A 
north-northeastward motion is expected on Wednesday.  On the 
forecast track, Elsa should emerge off the coast western Cuba during 
the next hour or so, move into the Florida Straits this evening, and 
pass near the Florida Keys early Tuesday. Elsa is then forecast to 
move near or over portions of the west coast of Florida by late 
Tuesday and continuing into Wednesday.
 
Data from the NOAA Doppler weather radar in Key West indicate that 
maximum sustained winds are near 50 mph (85 km/h) with higher gusts 
over water. Some restrengthening is forecast after Elsa moves over 
the Straits of Florida tonight and over the Gulf of Mexico on 
Tuesday. An Air Force Reserve reconnaissance aircraft is en route 
to investigate Elsa once the storm moves back over water.
 
Tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 70 miles (110 km), 
mainly north through northeast of the center.
 
The estimated minimum central pressure is 1008 mb (29.77 inches).
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Elsa can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT5, WMO header WTNT45 KNHC and
on the web at
www.hurricanes.gov/graphics_at5.shtml?key_messages.
 
WIND: Tropical storm conditions should continue over portions of
central and western Cuba for the next several hours.  Tropical
storm conditions are expected in the warning area in the Florida
Keys beginning tonight and along the Florida west coast beginning
Tuesday.  Tropical storm conditions are expected to spread
northward into the Florida Big Bend region within the Tropical
Storm Warning area Tuesday night and early Wednesday.  Tropical
storm conditions are possible in the watch area beginning
late Tuesday night.
 
STORM SURGE: A storm surge will raise water levels above normal
tide levels by as much as the following amounts in areas of onshore
winds within the Tropical Storm Warning areas...
 
Southern coast of Cuba...2 to 4 ft
 
The combination of a storm surge and the tide will cause normally
dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters moving
inland from the shoreline.  The water could reach the following
heights above ground somewhere in the indicated areas if the peak
surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Englewood, FL to Aucilla River including Tampa Bay...3 to 5 ft
Bonita Beach, FL to Englewood, FL including Charlotte Harbor...2 to
4 ft
Aucilla River to Ochlockonee River...2 to 4 ft
Flamingo, FL to Bonita Beach, FL...1 to 3 ft
Craig Key, FL to Dry Tortugas...1 to 2 ft
Ochlockonee River to Indian Pass...1 to 2 ft
 
Surge-related flooding depends on the relative timing of the surge
and the tidal cycle, and can vary greatly over short distances.  For
information specific to your area, please see products issued by
your local National Weather Service forecast office.
 
RAINFALL: Across portions of Cuba tonight, rainfall of 5 to 10
inches with isolated maximum amounts of 15 inches is expected.
This will result in significant flash flooding and mudslides.
Across the Cayman Islands tonight, rainfall of 3 to 5 inches is
expected. This rain may lead to scattered flash flooding.
 
Elsa is expected to produce the following rainfall amounts and
impacts this week:
 
Across the Keys into southwest and western portions of the Florida
Peninsula...3 to 5 inches with localized maximum totals up to 8
inches through Wednesday, which may result in considerable flash 
and urban flooding, along with minor to isolated moderate river
flooding.
 
Across the rest of Florida into southeast Georgia and the Low
Country of South Carolina...2 to 4 inches with localized maximum
totals up to 6 inches through Wednesday night, which may result in
isolated flash, urban, and minor river flooding.
 
Across coastal portions of North Carolina into southeastern
Virginia...1 to 3 inches with isolated totals up to 5 inches
Wednesday night through Thursday night, which could lead to isolated
flash and urban flooding.
 
TORNADOES: A few tornadoes are possible across south Florida tonight
and across the Florida Peninsula on Tuesday.
 
SURF: Swells generated by Elsa will spread westward along the
southern coast of Cuba tonight.  Swells will increase near the
Florida Keys and south Florida tonight and spread northward
along the west coast of Florida tonight through Tuesday night.
Please consult products from your local weather office for more
details.
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next complete advisory at 1100 PM EDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Stewart/Latto
 
NNNN
