
ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM
 
BULLETIN
Tropical Storm Eta Advisory Number  34
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL292020
400 PM EST Sun Nov 08 2020
 
...ETA MOVING NORTH-NORTHWESTWARD OVER THE FLORIDA STRAITS...
...EXPECTED TO PRODUCE DANGEROUS STORM SURGE, FLASH FLOODS AND
STRONG WINDS OVER PORTIONS OF CUBA, FLORIDA, AND THE FLORIDA KEYS...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 400 PM EST...2100 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...23.9N 79.5W
ABOUT 115 MI...185 KM ESE OF MARATHON FLORIDA
ABOUT 140 MI...225 KM SSE OF MIAMI FLORIDA
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...65 MPH...100 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...NW OR 325 DEGREES AT 14 MPH...22 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...993 MB...29.33 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
The Hurricane Watch has been discontinued for the east coast of 
Florida north of Golden Beach. 

The Storm Surge Watch north of Card Sound Bridge to Golden Beach, FL 
including Biscayne Bay has been discontinued.

The government of Cuba has discontinued the Tropical Storm Warning 
for the provinces of Camaguey, Ciego de Avila, Sancti Spiritus,
Villa Clara, Cienfuegos, and Matanzas.
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Storm Surge Warning is in effect for...
* Florida Keys from Ocean Reef to the Dry Tortugas, including
Florida Bay
 
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* Florida coast from Bonita Beach to Card Sound Bridge
 
A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* Florida Keys from Ocean Reef to the Dry Tortugas, including
Florida Bay
 
A Hurricane Watch is in effect for...
* Florida coast from Golden Beach to Bonita Beach
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* Northwestern Bahamas, including the Abacos, Andros Island,
Berry Islands, Bimini, Eleuthera, Grand Bahama Island, and New
Providence
* Florida coast from Brevard/Volusia County line to Englewood
* Lake Okeechobee
 
A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
* The Cuban provinces of La Habana, Artemisa, Mayabeque, Pinar del
Rio, and the Isle of Youth
* Florida coast from north of Englewood to Anna Maria Island
 
A Storm Surge Warning means there is a danger of life-threatening
inundation, from rising water moving inland from the coastline,
during the next 36 hours in the indicated locations. For a
depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.  This is a life-threatening situation.  Persons
located within these areas should take all necessary actions to
protect life and property from rising water and the potential for
other dangerous conditions.  Promptly follow evacuation and other
instructions from local officials.
 
A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected
somewhere within the warning area.  A warning is typically issued
36 hours before the anticipated first occurrence of
tropical-storm-force winds, conditions that make outside
preparations difficult or dangerous.  Preparations to protect life
and property should be rushed to completion.
 
A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours.
For a depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.
 
A Hurricane Watch means that hurricane conditions are possible
within the watch area, in this case within the next 24 hours.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere within the warning area, generally within 36
hours.
 
A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
possible within the watch area, generally within 48 hours.
 
Interests elsewhere in the Florida peninsula should monitor the 
progress of Eta.  
 
For storm information specific to your area in the United
States, including possible inland watches and warnings, please
monitor products issued by your local National Weather Service
forecast office. For storm information specific to your area
outside of the United States, please monitor products issued by
your national meteorological service.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 400 PM EST (2100 UTC), the center of Tropical Storm Eta was 
located near latitude 23.9 North, longitude 79.5 West. Eta is moving 
toward the northwest near 14 mph (22 km/h). This general motion is 
expected to continue this evening, followed by a turn toward the 
west by Monday. On the forecast track, the center of Eta will 
continue to move over the Florida Straits between Cuba and the 
Bahamas this afternoon, pass near or over the Florida Keys tonight 
and early Monday, and be over the southeastern Gulf of Mexico late 
Monday and Tuesday.
 
Maximum sustained winds are near 65 mph (100 km/h) with higher
gusts.  Some strengthening is forecast during the next day or so 
and Eta is forecast to become a hurricane as it moves near or over 
the Florida Keys tonight and early Monday.
 
Tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 175 miles (280 km) 
from the center. Sustained tropical-storm-force winds have been 
reported along much of the southeast Florida coast during the past 
few hours. A WeatherFlow station at Dania pier recently reported 
sustained winds of 42 mph (68 km/h) with a gust to 54 mph (87 km/h). 
An elevated site at Port Everglades reported 51 mph (82 km/h) 
sustained wind and a 68 mph (109 km/h) gust. Farther north, a 
National Ocean Service site at Lake Worth Pier reported sustained 
winds of 43 mph (69 km/h) and a gust to 49 mph (79 km/h).
 
The estimated minimum central pressure is 993 mb (29.33 inches).
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Eta can be found in the Tropical Cyclone Discussion
under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4, WMO header WTNT44 KNHC, and on the
web at www.hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml.
 
RAINFALL:  Eta is expected to produce the following rainfall amounts 
through Friday morning:

Jamaica: An additional 1 to 3 inches (25 to 75 mm), isolated maximum 
storm totals of 15 inches (380 mm).

Portions of Cuba: an additional 2 to 5 inches (50 to 125 mm), 
isolated maximum storm totals of 25 inches (635 mm).

The Bahamas: an additional 4 to 8 inches (100 to 200 mm), isolated 
maximum storm totals of 15 inches (380 mm).

Portions of the central and southern Florida peninsula, including 
the Keys: storm totals of 6 to 12 inches (150 to 300 mm), isolated 
maximum storm totals of 18 inches (450 mm).

Significant, life-threatening flash and river flooding will be 
possible in Cuba, along with landslides in areas of higher terrain. 
Significant flash and urban flooding will also be possible for 
Jamaica, the Bahamas, and Southern Florida.  Minor river flooding is 
also possible for Central Florida. 
 
STORM SURGE:  The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the
tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by
rising waters moving inland from the shoreline.  The water could
reach the following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated
areas if the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Bonita Beach, FL to Card Sound Bridge...2-4 ft
Florida Keys from Ocean Reef to the Dry Tortugas including Florida 
Bay...2-4 ft
Card Sound Bridge to Golden Beach, FL including Biscayne 
Bay...2-3 ft
Golden Beach, FL to Altamaha Sound, GA...1-2 ft
 
The deepest water will occur along the immediate coast in areas of
onshore winds, where the surge will be accompanied by large and
dangerous waves.  Surge-related flooding depends on the relative
timing of the surge and the tidal cycle, and can vary greatly over
short distances.  For information specific to your area, please see
products issued by your local National Weather Service forecast
office.
 
WIND: Hurricane conditions are expected in the Florida Keys by early
Monday morning. Tropical storm conditions are expected to continue
in the warning areas in Cuba during the next several hours and in
the northwestern Bahamas through tonight.  Tropical storm conditions
are expected to begin in south Florida and the Florida Keys this
afternoon or evening, and hurricane conditions are possible in the
hurricane watch area in Florida tonight and early Monday. Tropical
storm conditions are possible in the Tropical Storm Watch area in
Florida by early Monday.
 
TORNADOES: A few tornadoes are possible this evening through Monday 
over south Florida and the Keys.
 
SURF:  Swells generated by Eta are expected to affect the north 
coast of Cuba, the northwestern Bahamas, southern Florida and the 
Florida Keys during the next couple of days.  Swells will gradually 
subside along the south coast of Cuba, the Cayman Islands and 
Jamaica later today.  These swells are likely to cause 
life-threatening surf and rip current conditions. Please consult 
products from your local weather office.
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next intermediate advisory at 700 PM EST.
Next complete advisory at 1000 PM EST.
 
$$
Forecaster Stewart/Zelinsky
 
NNNN
