
ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM CCA
 
BULLETIN
Hurricane Ida Advisory Number   6...Corrected
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL092021
500 PM EDT Fri Aug 27 2021

Corrected typo in the second headline
 
...CENTER OF IDA APPROACHING WESTERN CUBA...
...STORM SURGE AND HURRICANE WARNINGS ISSUED FOR PORTIONS OF THE
NORTHERN GULF COAST...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 500 PM EDT...2100 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...22.1N 83.2W
ABOUT 45 MI...70 KM NW OF THE ISLE OF YOUTH
ABOUT 90 MI...145 KM SW OF HAVANA CUBA
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...80 MPH...130 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...NW OR 320 DEGREES AT 15 MPH...24 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...985 MB...29.09 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
A Storm Surge Warning has been issued from east of Rockefeller
Wildlife Refuge, Louisiana, to the Mississippi/Alabama border
including Vermilion Bay, Lake Borgne, Lake Pontchartrain, and Lake
Maurepas.
 
A Hurricane Warning has been issued for the coast of Louisiana from
Intracoastal City to the Mouth of the Pearl River, including Lake
Pontchartrain, Lake Maurepas, and Metropolitan New Orleans.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning has been issued for the northern Gulf
coast from the Mouth of the Pearl River to the Mississippi/Alabama
border. A Tropical Storm Warning has also been issued for the coast
of Louisiana from west of Intracoastal City to Cameron.
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Storm Surge Warning is in effect for...
* East of Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge Louisiana to the 
Mississippi/Alabama border
* Vermilion Bay, Lake Borgne, Lake Pontchartrain, and Lake Maurepas
 
A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* Cuban provinces of Pinar del Rio and Artemisa, and the Isle of
Youth
* Intracoastal City Louisiana to the Mouth of the Pearl River
* Lake Pontchartrain, Lake Maurepas, and Metropolitan New Orleans
 
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* Sabine Pass to Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge Louisiana
* Mobile Bay
 
A Hurricane Watch is in effect for...
* Cameron Louisiana to west of Intracoastal City Louisiana
* Mouth of the Pearl River to the Mississippi/Alabama border
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* Cuban provinces of Matanzas, Mayabeque, and Havana
* Cameron Louisiana to west of Intracoastal City Louisiana
* Mouth of the Pearl River to the Mississippi/Alabama border
 
A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
* Mississippi/Alabama border to the Alabama/Florida border
 
A Storm Surge Warning means there is a danger of life-threatening
inundation, from rising water moving inland from the coastline,
during the next 36 hours in the indicated locations. For a
depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.  This is a life-threatening situation.  Persons
located within these areas should take all necessary actions to
protect life and property from rising water and the potential for
other dangerous conditions.  Promptly follow evacuation and other
instructions from local officials.
 
A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected
somewhere within the warning area.  A warning is typically issued
36 hours before the anticipated first occurrence of
tropical-storm-force winds, conditions that make outside
preparations difficult or dangerous.  Preparations to protect life
and property should be rushed to completion.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere within the warning area within 36 hours.
 
A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours.
 
A Hurricane Watch means that hurricane conditions are possible
within the watch area.  A watch is typically issued 48 hours
before the anticipated first occurrence of tropical-storm-force
winds, conditions that make outside preparations difficult or
dangerous.
 
A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
possible within the watch area, generally within 48 hours.
 
Interests elsewhere along the northern U.S. Gulf coast should
monitor the progress of this system.  Interests in the Dry Tortugas
should also monitor the progress of Ida.
 
For storm information specific to your area in the United
States, including possible inland watches and warnings, please
monitor products issued by your local National Weather Service
forecast office. For storm information specific to your area
outside of the United States, please monitor products issued by
your national meteorological service.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 500 PM EDT (2100 UTC), the center of Hurricane Ida was located
near latitude 22.1 North, longitude 83.2 West. Ida is moving toward
the northwest near 15 mph (24 km/h), and this general motion should
continue until Ida reaches the northern Gulf coast on Sunday.  A 
slower northward motion is forecast after Ida reaches the northern 
Gulf coast.  On the forecast track, the center of Ida will pass 
over western Cuba during the next several hours, and then move over 
the southeastern and central Gulf of Mexico later tonight and 
Saturday. Ida is forecast to make landfall along the U.S. northern 
Gulf coast within the hurricane warning area on Sunday.
 
Maximum sustained winds have increased to near 80 mph (130 km/h) 
with higher gusts.  Little change in strength is anticipated while 
Ida moves over western Cuba this evening.  Steady to rapid
strengthening is expected when Ida moves over the southeastern and
central Gulf of Mexico over the weekend, and Ida is expected to be
an extremely dangerous major hurricane when it approaches the 
northern Gulf coast on Sunday.
 
Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 25 miles (35 km) from the
center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 90 miles
(150 km).  A wind gust to 46 mph (74 km/h) has recently been 
reported on Cayo Largo, Cuba.
 
The estimated minimum central pressure is 985 mb (29.09 inches).
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Ida can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4, WMO header WTNT44 KNHC,
and on the web at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?key_messages.
 
STORM SURGE:  A dangerous storm surge will raise water levels by
as much as 4 to 6 feet above normal tide levels in areas of onshore
winds along the immediate coast of the Isle of Youth and near and to
the east of where the center crosses the coast of western Cuba.
Near the coast, the surge will be accompanied by large and
destructive waves.
 
The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the tide will cause
normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters
moving inland from the shoreline.  The water could reach the
following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated areas if
the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Morgan City, LA to Mouth of the Mississippi River...10-15 ft
Mouth of the Mississippi River to Ocean Springs, MS including Lake
Borgne...7-11 ft
Intracoastal City, LA to Morgan City, LA including Vermilion
Bay...6-9 ft
Ocean Springs, MS to MS/AL border...4-7 ft
Lake Pontchartrain...4-7 ft
Lake Maurepas...3-5 ft
Pecan Island, LA to Intracoastal City, LA...3-5 ft
MS/AL border to AL/FL border including Mobile Bay...2-4 ft
Sabine Pass to Pecan Island, LA...2-4 ft
 
Overtopping of local levees outside of the Hurricane and Storm
Damage Risk Reduction System is possible where local inundation
values may be higher than those shown above.
 
The deepest water will occur along the immediate coast near and to
the east of the landfall location, where the surge will be
accompanied by large and dangerous waves.  Surge-related flooding
depends on the relative timing of the surge and the tidal cycle,
and can vary greatly over short distances.  For information
specific to your area, please see products issued by your local
National Weather Service forecast office.
 
WIND:  Hurricane and tropical storm conditions are occuring over
the Isle of Youth and portions of western Cuba and will continue
through tonight in western Cuba.
 
Hurricane conditions are expected in the hurricane warning area
along the northern Gulf coast beginning Sunday with tropical
storm conditions expected to begin by late Saturday night.
 
RAINFALL:  Ida is expected to produce total rainfall accumulations
of 6 to 10 inches with maximum totals of 15 inches across Jamaica.
Rainfall totals of 8 to 12 inches with isolated maximum amounts of
20 inches are expected across the Cayman Islands and western Cuba,
including the Isle of Youth.  These rainfall amounts may produce
life-threatening flash floods and mudslides.
 
As Ida approaches the central Gulf Coast Sunday afternoon, total
rainfall accumulations of 8 to 16 inches with isolated maximum
amounts of 20 inches are possible from southeast Louisiana to
coastal Mississippi and Alabama through Monday morning.  This is
likely to result in considerable flash, urban, small stream, and
riverine flooding impacts.
 
Ida is forecast to turn northeast as it moves inland later Monday
with rainfall totals of 4 to 8 inches possible across southern and
central Mississippi into the Tennessee Valley. This is likely to
result in flash, urban, small stream, and riverine flooding impacts.
 
SURF:  Swells generated by this system will affect the Cayman
Islands and Cuba through tonight. Swells will begin reaching
portions of the northern Gulf coast Saturday night or early Sunday.
These swells are likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip
current conditions. Please consult products from your local weather
office.
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next intermediate advisory at 800 PM EDT.
Next complete advisory at 1100 PM EDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Brown
 
NNNN
