
ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM
 
BULLETIN
Tropical Storm Isaias Intermediate Advisory Number 19A
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL092020
800 PM EDT Sat Aug 01 2020
 
...ISAIAS EXPECTED TO RE-STRENGTHEN TO A HURRICANE OVERNIGHT
WHILE IT APPROACHES THE SOUTHEAST COAST OF FLORIDA...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 800 PM EDT...0000 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...25.3N 78.9W
ABOUT 100 MI...160 KM SE OF FORT LAUDERDALE FLORIDA
ABOUT 85 MI...135 KM S OF FREEPORT GRAND BAHAMA ISLAND
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...70 MPH...110 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...NW OR 310 DEGREES AT 9 MPH...15 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...993 MB...29.32 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
The government of the Bahamas has discontinued the Hurricane
Warning for Eleuthera, New Providence, Andros Island, and the
Abacos Islands
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* Boca Raton to the Volusia/Flagler County Line Florida
* Bimini, the Berry Islands, and Grand Bahama Island
 
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* Jupiter Inlet to Ponte Vedra Beach Florida
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* North of Ocean Reef to south of Boca Raton Florida
* Lake Okeechobee
* Volusia/Flagler County Line to Ponte Vedra Beach Florida
 
A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
* North of Ponte Vedra Beach Florida to South Santee River South
Carolina
 
Interests elsewhere along the southeast and mid-Atlantic coasts of
the United States should monitor the progress of Isaias.  Additional
watches or warnings may be required tonight or Sunday.
 
A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected
somewhere within the warning area. Preparations to protect life
and property should be rushed to completion.
 
A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours.
For a depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere within the warning area.
 
A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
possible within the watch area, generally within 48 hours.
 
For storm information specific to your area in the United
States, including possible inland watches and warnings, please
monitor products issued by your local National Weather Service
forecast office. For storm information specific to your area
outside of the United States, please monitor products issued by
your national meteorological service.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 800 PM EDT (0000 UTC), the center of Tropical Storm Isaias was 
located by an Air Force Hurricane Hunter aircraft near latitude 25.3 
North, longitude 78.9 West.  Isaias is moving toward the northwest 
near 9 mph (15 km/h).  A general northwestward motion with some 
decrease in forward speed is expected for the next day or so, 
followed by a north-northwestward motion by late Sunday.  A turn 
toward the north and north-northeast is anticipated on Monday and 
Tuesday with an increase in forward speed.  On the forecast track, 
the center of Isaias will approach the southeast coast of Florida 
tonight and move near or along the east coast of Florida Sunday and 
Sunday night.  On Monday and Tuesday, the center of Isaias will move 
from offshore of the coast of Georgia into the southern mid-Atlantic 
states.
 
Maximum sustained winds are near 70 mph (110 km/h) with higher
gusts.  Some restrengthening is forecast, and Isaias is expected to
regain hurricane strength later tonight and early Sunday.  Slow
weakening is expected to begin Sunday night and continue through
Monday.
 
Tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 105 miles (165 km)
from the center.  Settlement Point, Grand Bahama Island, recently
reported a wind gust of 41 mph (66 km/h).  An unofficial observing 
station in Ft. Lauderdale Beach recently reported a wind gust of 39 
mph (63 km/h).
 
The estimated minimum central pressure based on Hurricane Hunter
aircraft data is 993 mb (29.32 inches).
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Isaias can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4, WMO header WTNT44 KNHC, and
on the web at www.hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml.
 
STORM SURGE:  The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the
tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by
rising waters moving inland from the shoreline.  The water could
reach the following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated
areas if the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Jupiter Inlet to Ponte Vedra Beach FL...2-4 ft
North Miami Beach to Jupiter Inlet FL...1-3 ft
 
The deepest water will occur along the immediate coast near and to
the right of the center, where the surge will be accompanied by
large waves.  Surge-related flooding depends on the relative timing
of the surge and the tidal cycle, and can vary greatly over short
distances.  For information specific to your area, please see
products issued by your local National Weather Service forecast
office.
 
A dangerous storm surge will raise water levels by as much as
3 to 5 feet above normal tide levels in areas of onshore winds in
the Northwestern Bahamas.
 
WIND:  Hurricane and tropical storm conditions will continue over
portions of the Northwestern Bahamas tonight.
 
Hurricane conditions are expected to reach the coast within the
hurricane warning area in Florida on Sunday and will spread
northward through Sunday night. Winds are expected to first reach
tropical storm strength later tonight, making outside preparations
difficult or dangerous. Preparations to protect life and property
should be rushed to completion. Tropical storm conditions are
expected within the tropical storm warning area in South Florida
tonight.
 
Tropical storm conditions are expected in the warning area in
northeast Florida by Sunday night, and are possible in the watch
area from northeast Florida to South Carolina on Monday.
 
RAINFALL: Isaias is expected to produce the following rain
accumulations:
 
Bahamas: 4 to 8 inches, with isolated maximum totals of 12 inches.
 
Cuba: 1 to 2 inches, with isolated maximum totals of 4 inches.
 
Eastern Florida: 2 to 4 inches, with isolated maximum totals of 6
inches.
 
Northeast Florida and coastal Georgia: 1 to 3 inches.
 
Carolinas and the mid Atlantic, including the southern and central
Appalachians: 2 to 5 inches, with isolated maximum totals of 7
inches.
 
Southeast New York and much of New England: 2 to 4 inches, with
isolated maximum totals of 6 inches.
 
Heavy rainfall from Isaias could result in potentially life-
threatening flash flooding in the Bahamas and flash and urban
flooding along the East Coast of the United States. Minor river
flooding and isolated moderate river flooding is possible across
portions of the Carolinas and Virginia.
 
SURF:  Swells generated by Isaias are affecting portions of
Hispaniola, eastern Cuba, the Turks and Caicos, and the Bahamas.
These swells will spread along the east coast of Florida and the
southeastern United States coast through Sunday.  These swells are
likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip current conditions.
Please consult products from your local weather office.
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next complete advisory at 1100 PM EDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Pasch
 
NNNN
