
ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM
 
BULLETIN
Hurricane Isaias Intermediate Advisory Number 17A
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL092020
800 AM EDT Sat Aug 01 2020
 
...RAGGED EYE OF ISAIAS NEAR EASTERN ANDROS ISLAND...
...EXPECTED TO APPROACH THE SOUTHEAST COAST OF FLORIDA LATER TODAY
AND SUNDAY...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 800 AM EDT...1200 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...24.3N 77.5W
ABOUT 20 MI...30 KM E OF ANDROS ISLAND BAHAMAS
ABOUT 50 MI...85 KM S OF NASSAU BAHAMAS
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...85 MPH...140 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...NW OR 315 DEGREES AT 12 MPH...19 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...987 MB...29.15 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
The Hurricane Warning for the Central Bahamas has been discontinued.
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* Boca Raton to the Volusia/Flagler County Line Florida
* Northwestern Bahamas
 
A Hurricane Watch is in effect for...
* Hallandale Beach to south of Boca Raton Florida
 
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* Jupiter Inlet to Ponte Vedra Beach Florida
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* North of Ocean Reef to south of Boca Raton Florida
* Lake Okeechobee
 
A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
* Volusia/Flagler County Line to Ponte Vedra Beach Florida
 
Interests elsewhere along the southeast coast of the United States
should monitor the progress of Isaias.  Additional watches or
warnings may be required later today.
 
A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected
somewhere within the warning area. A warning is typically issued
36 hours before the anticipated first occurrence of
tropical-storm-force winds, conditions that make outside
preparations difficult or dangerous.  Preparations to protect life
and property should be rushed to completion.
 
A Hurricane Watch means that hurricane conditions are possible
within the watch area.  A watch is typically issued 48 hours
before the anticipated first occurrence of tropical-storm-force
winds, conditions that make outside preparations difficult or
dangerous.
 
A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours.
For a depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere within the warning area within 36 hours.
 
A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
possible within the watch area, generally within 48 hours.
 
For storm information specific to your area in the United States, 
including possible inland watches and warnings, please monitor 
products issued by your local National Weather Service forecast 
office. For storm information specific to your area outside of the 
United States, please monitor products issued by your national 
meteorological service.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 800 AM EDT (1200 UTC), the center of Hurricane Isaias was located 
by NOAA and Air Force Reserve Hurricane Hunter aircraft and Bahamas 
radar near latitude 24.3 North, longitude 77.5 West. Isaias is 
moving toward the northwest near 12 mph (19 km/h). A general 
northwestward motion with some decrease in forward speed is expected 
for the next day or so, followed by a turn toward the 
north-northwest by late Sunday.  On the forecast track, the center 
of Isaias will move near or over Andros Island in the Northwestern 
Bahamas this morning and continue to move near or over the rest of 
Northwestern Bahamas later today, and move near the east coast of 
the Florida peninsula tonight through Sunday.
 
Reports from the reconnaissance aircraft indicate that maximum 
sustained winds remain near 85 mph (140 km/h) with higher gusts.  
Little change in strength is expected through Sunday, and and 
Isaias is forecast to remain a hurricane during this time.
 
Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 35 miles (55 km) from
the center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 175
miles (280 km).
 
The minimum central pressure recently measured by the aircraft was 
987 mb (29.15 inches).
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Isaias can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4, WMO header WTNT44 KNHC, and
on the web at www.hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml.
 
STORM SURGE:  The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the
tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by
rising waters moving inland from the shoreline.  The water could
reach the following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated
areas if the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Jupiter Inlet to Ponte Vedra Beach FL...2-4 ft
North Miami Beach to Jupiter Inlet FL...1-3 ft
 
The deepest water will occur along the immediate coast near and to
the right of the center, where the surge will be accompanied by
large waves.  Surge-related flooding depends on the relative timing
of the surge and the tidal cycle, and can vary greatly over short
distances.  For information specific to your area, please see
products issued by your local National Weather Service forecast
office.
 
A dangerous storm surge will raise water levels by as much as 
3 to 5 feet above normal tide levels in areas of onshore winds in 
the Northwestern Bahamas.
 
WIND:  Hurricane conditions will continue to spread over the 
Northwestern Bahamas later today.
 
Hurricane conditions are expected to reach the coast within the
hurricane warning area in Florida tonight and will spread northward
through Sunday. Winds are expected to first reach tropical storm
strength later today, making outside preparations difficult or
dangerous. Preparations to protect life and property should be
rushed to completion.  Tropical storm conditions are expected
within the tropical storm warning area, and are possible within the
watch area, over southern Florida by this afternoon or evening.
 
RAINFALL: Isaias is expected to produce the following rain
accumulations:
 
Bahamas: 4 to 8 inches.
 
Cuba: 1 to 2 inches, with isolated maximum totals of 4 inches.
 
These rainfall amounts could lead to life-threatening flash  and
urban flooding, especially in low-lying and poorly drained areas.
 
From Friday night through Tuesday:
 
South Florida into east-Central Florida: 2 to 4 inches, with
isolated maximum totals of 6 inches.
 
Northeast Florida into coastal Georgia: 1 to 2 inches.
 
Carolinas into the mid Atlantic, including the southern and central
Appalachians: 2 to 4 inches, with isolated maximum totals of 6
inches.
 
Heavy rainfall from Isaias could result in potentially
life-threatening flash and urban flooding, especially in low-lying
and poorly drained areas. Minor river flooding is possible across
portions of the Carolinas and into Virginia.
 
SURF:  Swells generated by Isaias are affecting portions of
Hispaniola, eastern Cuba, the Turks and Caicos, and the southeastern
and central Bahamas. These swells will spread along the east coast
of Florida and the southeastern United States coast today.  These
swells are likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip current
conditions. Please consult products from your local weather office.
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next complete advisory at 1100 AM EDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Stewart
 
NNNN
